Additional improvement for Logstash volumes documentation (#7053)
elastic/cloud-on-k8s: docs/orchestrating-elastic-stack-applications/logstash.asciidoc

<2> Set the `path.dead_letter_queue` setting in the pipeline config to match the `mountPath` in the `volumeMount` for pipelines that are writing to the Dead Letter Queue, and set the `path` setting of the `dead_letter_queue` plugin for the pipeline that will read from the Dead Letter Queue.

[id="{p}-volume-claim-settings-updates"]
[discrete]
== Updating the volume claim settings

Changes, such as storage class or volume size, are currently forbidden in `spec.volumeClaimTemplates`.

> To make these changes, you have to fully delete the {ls} object, delete and recreate or resize the volume, and create a new {ls} resource.

Author: ```suggestion
To make these changes, you have to fully delete the {ls} resource, delete and recreate or resize the volume, and create a new {ls} resource.
```

      terminationGracePeriodSeconds: 604800
----

NOTE: A https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/issues/94435[{k8s} known issue]: {k8s} may not honor `terminationGracePeriodSeconds` settings greater than 600. 
A queue of a terminated Pod may not be fully drained, even when `queue.drain: true` is set and a high `terminationGracePeriodSeconds` is configured.

NOTE: In this technical preview, there is currently no way to drain a dead letter queue (DLQ) automatically before {ls} shuts down. 
To manually drain the queue, first stop sending data to it, by either disabling the DLQ feature, or disabling any pipelines that send to a DLQ. 
Then wait for events to stop flowing through any pipelines reading from the input.

[id="{p}-emptydir"]
[discrete]
== EmptyDir

> If you are not concerned about data loss, you can use an `emptyDir` volume for Logstash data.

Author: I think it's important that it sounds strong and I'll keep "data loss".

CAUTION: The use of `emptyDir` in a production environment may cause permanent data loss. 

> Do not use with persistent queues (PQs), dead letter queues (DLQs), or with any plugin that requires persistent storage to keep track of state between restarts of {ls].

Author: wrt "any plugin that requires persistent storage". Are there resources we can point to for this info? Would a user know which plugins require persistent storage?

Author: Addressed in https://github.com/elastic/cloud-on-k8s/pull/7053#discussion_r1272569236.

> Do not use with persistent queues (PQs), dead letter queues (DLQs), or with any plugin that requires persistent storage to keep track of state between restarts of {ls].

Author: ```suggestion
Do not use with persistent queues (PQs), dead letter queues (DLQs), or with any plugin that requires persistent storage to keep track of state between restarts of {ls}.
```

> Do not use with persistent queues (PQs), dead letter queues (DLQs), or with any plugin that requires persistent storage to keep track of state between restarts of {ls}.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Do not use with persistent queues (PQs), dead letter queues (DLQs), or with any plugin that requires persistent storage to keep track of state between restarts of {ls}. 
Plugins that require persistent storage include any plugin that store state locally. Typically this will include a configuration parameter that includes the name `path` or `directory` - not including paths to static content, such as certificates or keystores. For example the `sincedb_path` setting for the `file`, `dead_letter_queue` and `s3` inputs, the `last_run_metadata_path` for the `JDBC` input, `aggregate_maps_path` for the `aggregate` filter and `temporary_directory` for the `s3` output, which is used to aggregate content before uploading to s3.
```

Sadly we don't have an external exhaustive list that we can point to - I hope this is sufficient

      terminationGracePeriodSeconds: 604800
----

NOTE: A https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/issues/94435[{k8s} known issue]: {k8s} may not honor `terminationGracePeriodSeconds` settings greater than 600. 
A queue of a terminated Pod may not be fully drained, even when `queue.drain: true` is set and a high `terminationGracePeriodSeconds` is configured.

NOTE: In this technical preview, there is currently no way to drain a dead letter queue (DLQ) automatically before {ls} shuts down. 
To manually drain the queue, first stop sending data to it, by either disabling the DLQ feature, or disabling any pipelines that send to a DLQ. 
Then wait for events to stop flowing through any pipelines reading from the input.

[id="{p}-emptydir"]
[discrete]
== EmptyDir

If you are not concerned about data loss, you can use an `emptyDir` volume for Logstash data.

> CAUTION: The use of `emptyDir` in a production environment may cause permanent data loss. 
> Do not use with persistent queues (PQs), dead letter queues (DLQs), or with any plugin that requires persistent storage to keep track of state between restarts of {ls}.
> Plugins that require persistent storage include any plugin that store state locally. Typically this will include a configuration parameter that includes the name `path` or `directory` - not including paths to static content, such as certificates or keystores. For example the `sincedb_path` setting for the `file`, `dead_letter_queue` and `s3` inputs, the `last_run_metadata_path` for the `JDBC` input, `aggregate_maps_path` for the `aggregate` filter and `temporary_directory` for the `s3` output, which is used to aggregate content before uploading to s3.

Author: ```suggestion
[CAUTION]
--
The use of `emptyDir` in a production environment may cause permanent data loss. 
Do not use with persistent queues (PQs), dead letter queues (DLQs), or with any plugin that requires persistent storage to keep track of state between restarts of {ls}.

Plugins that require persistent storage include any plugin that stores state locally. 
These plugins typically have a configuration parameter that includes the name `path` or `directory`--not including paths to static content, such as certificates or keystores. 
Examples include the `sincedb_path` setting for the `file`, `dead_letter_queue` and `s3` inputs, the `last_run_metadata_path` for the `JDBC` input, `aggregate_maps_path` for the `aggregate` filter, and `temporary_directory` for the `s3` output, used to aggregate content before uploading to s3.
--
```

Author: Applying https://github.com/elastic/cloud-on-k8s/pull/7053#issuecomment-1648812748 ^^.

Deploys Logstash and Elasticsearch, and creates an updated version of the `eck_logstash_user_role` to write to a user specified index.

[id="{p}-logstash-configuration-pq-dlq"]
=== Creating persistent volumes for PQ and DLQ

[source,sh,subs="attributes"]
----
kubectl apply -f {logstash_recipes}/logstash-volumes.yaml
----

> Deploys {ls], [beats] and {es]. {ls] is configured with two pipelines: 

Author: ```suggestion
Deploys Logstash, Beats and Elasticsearch. Logstash is configured with two pipelines:

```

[id="{p}-logstash-technical-preview-persistence"]
=== Experimental support for persistence
NOTE: Persistence (experimental) is a breaking change from version 2.8.0 of the ECK operator and requires re-creation of existing {ls} objects.

The operator now includes support for persistence.
It creates a small (`1Gi`) default `PersistentVolume` called `logstash-data` that maps to `/usr/share/logstash/data`, typically used for storage from plugins. 
The default volume can be overridden by adding a `spec.volumeClaimTemplate` section named `logstash-data` to add more storage, or to use a different `storageClass` from the default, for example. 

> You can define additional `persistentVolumeClaims`  in `spec.volumeClaimTemplate` for use with PQ, or DLQ, for example.

Author: ```suggestion
You can define additional `persistentVolumeClaims` in `spec.volumeClaimTemplate` for use with PQ, or DLQ, for example.
```

The current implementation does not allow resizing of volumes, even if your chosen storage class would support it. 

> To resize a volume, delete the {ls] object, delete and recreate (or resize) the volume, and create a new {ls} object. 

Author: ```suggestion
To resize a volume, delete the {ls] resource, delete and recreate (or resize) the volume, and create a new {ls} resource. 
```

[id="{p}-logstash-technical-preview-persistence"]
=== Experimental support for persistence
NOTE: Persistence (experimental) is a breaking change from version 2.8.0 of the ECK operator and requires re-creation of existing {ls} resources.

The operator now includes support for persistence.
It creates a small (`1Gi`) default `PersistentVolume` called `logstash-data` that maps to `/usr/share/logstash/data`, typically used for storage from plugins. 
The default volume can be overridden by adding a `spec.volumeClaimTemplate` section named `logstash-data` to add more storage, or to use a different `storageClass` from the default, for example. 
You can define additional `persistentVolumeClaims` in `spec.volumeClaimTemplate` for use with PQ, or DLQ, for example.

The current implementation does not allow resizing of volumes, even if your chosen storage class would support it. 

> To resize a volume, delete the {ls] resource, delete and recreate (or resize) the volume, and create a new {ls} resource. 

Author: ```suggestion
To resize a volume, delete the {ls} resource, delete and recreate (or resize) the volume, and create a new {ls} resource. 
```
